---
title: ""
date: 2026-04-22 
---

## The Brief
Without diving into much business logic. The idea is to have a platform where you host a Suite of Products and your clients can pick and choose which products they want to subscribe to. 

The Suite initself is sold as a white label product. So we call the client a Subscription Owner. 

The Subcription Owner can then host the suite and on their own or we can host it for them. The important part is they get to set up their own world and bring in their clients. It's then again their clients that can pick and choose which products they care about.

The platform should be able to host any Suite. It's provides on the logic and interfaces to create a Suite, Domain Services, Products and to manage their entities and Access Control.

### Implications
- The Products can have their own language and own db but they need to interface with the bigger picture. This is done by using the Suite's Schema and Domain Services to get objects accesible on a suite level. 
- We don't want Products talking direclty to each other but rather to the Suite and the suite handles the interop.
- Any Suite level object is created through a Domain Service. The Domain Service holds the business logic to create the required entity. If we left that to each product we open oursleves to contradicting logic.
- We need a modular frontend. This is achieved with Products not only defining their api interface but also Razor Class Libraries.
- We need a single Gateway api since we don't want to call separate product apis.
- We need a single frontend that makes these products available.
- We need need a way to determine access control and identity
- There should be another layer which is higher that the Suite whch holds things like(User Management, Governance, Subscription Detail)

### Complications
- Many of the times the Subscription Owner does work for a Client and the Client's client. This seems like a conflict of interest but essentially it means that two different clients might have different views about the same object. It is then important to have tht object s a singular object in our system. What we are trying to avoid is two different clients asking the same question but recieving different answers. They should recieve the same answer. 
- We need to be able to travel back in timme to see why things have happend.
- We want to be able to easily add new products or modules
- The Subscription Owner needs to be able to access all the clients resources and work on them.


## Solution

### Frontend
- To have a modular frontend we went with Blazor. Where we will have a signle Blazor frontend app that runs on Auto render mode (it switches between SSR and WASM). 
- We will use the BFF pattern so the Client app doesn't call the Gateway separatley. 
- To do our whole micro frontend, we will be registering the products with their Razor Class Libraries. They will be displayed and naviagted via a dynamic compnent on the Blazor app. 
- We will call the Gateway API first to get the user's details and which products the may see, from theere we can display a drop down to those products and features.

### Identity
- We will go with keyclaok, it's free and esy to use.
- Using JWT tokens for Auth on the Frontend and Gateway API

### Access Control
- The main thought is that relationships most accuralty represent the real world and thus Relationship Based Access Control(Rebac) would best fit our need.
- It's important in our use case of multiple users having different relationships to the same entity. 
- This is best represented by a graph database, with nodes and edges. Here we can traverse paths to determine what the user that is query can see. 
- How we still this play out:
  - There would be a graph per Subscription(Instance of the Suite)
  - The Subscription Owner would have acces across the graph bia the Subscription being a node that all aggregates are connected to.
  - The Clients of the Subscription Owner would have Realms.
    - The client would be the realm owner and will be able to invite their employees to work in their realm. 
    - The client will also be able to invite their clients to access their realm.
    - So we create Realm Roles and attach the User via a Membership node to the Role in the Realm.
    - This Role will hold what paths the are traversalable and the persmissions on those paths.
- The platform will provide a service to interact with the graph. The Domain Services can call this service to interact with the graph. We do now want the Products direclty calling the graph. 
- The graph can run in AGE on Postgres

### Gateway
- We will be using GraphQL Federated Gateway. THis means tht the separate Products or Shared Serices can run their own internal Subgraphs and we just stitch them together for the user. Hotchocolate Fusion will be our prefered way to achieve this. 

### Domain Services
- These will hold the business logic of creating Suite level entities. 
- They will be called by the products via Http Clients
- They won't be exposed on the Gateway

### Products
- These hold the actual business logic the end users interact with directly.
- A product is defined by it's subgraph and it's Razor Class Library(RCL)
- The RCL's will get the products subgraph scheam and we will create a Strawberry shake client to be used in the blzor compnents. 
- When we register the product so that the Blazor app can see them will will have the http client be the gateway instead of the subgraph. Since the Schema is identical this works.

### Event Store
- Event store will be maintianed by the domain services. 
- MartenDb will be used with Postgres.
- This will be our main data store.

###



