---
title: ""
date: 2026-04-22 
---

## The Brief
Without diving into much business logic. The idea is to have a platform where you host a Suite of Products. It will be a multi-tenant, white-label services where subscribers can choose the products they want to subscribe to. 
They will also get their own workspace(custom url and branding.). They will be able to control their workspace and invite and manage their clients in their workspace, giving those their clients product access as they see fit.

The platform should be able to host any Suite. It's provides all the logic and interfaces to create a Suite, Suite Services, Products and to manage their entities and Access Control. As well as multi-tenant and white-label capabilities.

### Implications
- There is a single Suite Schema 
- There are Suite Services the product can call to create an entity on a Suite level. The product can call the Entity what it wants the fact remains if it wants an entity shared on a suite level it needs to create via the Suite Services.
- All Entities are Workspace Scoped.
- The only thing that would be outside of the workspace would be th workspace setup managed by the platform owner(us)
- We don't want Products talking direclty to each other but rather to the Suite and the suite handles the interop.
- Any Suite level object is created through a Suite Service. The Suite Service holds the business logic to create the required entity. If we left that to each product we open oursleves to contradicting logic.
- We need a modular frontend. This is achieved with Products not only defining their schema and service logic but also Razor Class Libraries.
- We need a single Gateway api since we don't want to call separate product apis.
- We need a single frontend that makes these products available.
- We need need a way to determine access control and identity
- There should be another layer which is higher that the Suite whch holds things like(User Management, Governance, Subscription Detail). Platform layer
- Due to the multitenancy and white label nature of the platform we need to be able to set up a workspace with custom url and branding. This will also mean that we need a separate db for the workspace.
- We will have the platform db and site which the subsrciber can go to to set up their workspace and manage their subscription. Once they have set up their workspace they will be able to go to their custom url to access the products and manage their workspace.

### Complications
- We need auditability
- We want to be able to easily add new products or modules
- The Subscriber should be able "manage" work on any and everything in their workspace.
- The Subscriber needs to be able to control who sees what and why. Especially when it comes to their clients invite other to view things their clients want to see.


## Solution

### Frontend
- To have a modular frontend we went with Blazor. Where we will have a signle Blazor frontend app that runs on Auto render mode (it switches between SSR and WASM). 
- We will use the BFF pattern so the Client app doesn't call the Gateway separatley. 
- To do our whole micro frontend, we will be registering the products with their Razor Class Libraries. They will be displayed and naviagted via a dynamic compnent on the Blazor app. 
- We will call the Gateway API first to get the user's details and which products the may see, from theere we can display a drop down to those products and features.

### Identity
- We will go with keyclaok, it's free and esy to use.
- Using JWT tokens for Auth on the Frontend and Gateway API

### Access Control
- The main thought is that relationships most accuralty represent the real world and thus Relationship Based Access Control(Rebac) would best fit our need.
- It's important in our use case of multiple users having different relationships to the same entity. 
- This is best represented by a graph database, with nodes and edges. Here we can traverse paths to determine what the user that is query can see. 
- How we see this playing out:
  - There would be a graph per Workspace. This is because the relationships are scoped to the workspace and we don't want to have to worry about cross workspace relationships.
    - The end user will access via the workspace url anyway
  - The Subscriber would have access across the graph via the Subscription being a node that all aggregates are connected to.
  - The Clients of the Workspace Owner would have Realms.
    - The client would be the realm owner and will be able to invite their employees to work in their realm. 
    - The client will also be able to invite their clients to access their realm.
    - So we create Realm Roles and attach the User via a Membership node to the Role in the Realm.
    - This Role will hold what paths are traversalable and the persmissions on those paths.
- The platform will provide a service to interact with the graph. The Suite Services can call this service to interact with the graph. We do now want the Products direclty calling the graph. 
- The graph can run in AGE on Postgres
- The Suite can define paths for a Suite Type. Then the paths can be assigned to a Role in a Realm.

### Gateway
- We will be using GraphQL Hotchocolate for the gateway.
- We will register the products schema on the gateway as well as the platform schema. The platform schema will hold things like user details, subscription details, workspace details and etc.


### Domain Services
- These will hold the business logic of creating Suite level entities. 
- They will be called by the products via Http Clients
- They won't be exposed on the Gateway
- They create the Ids
- They call the Platform service to create the nodes in the graph
- They call the Platform service to determine which nodes the user may see depending on the path given.

### Products
- These hold the actual business logic the end users interact with directly.
- A product is defined by it's business logiic, schema and it's Razor Class Library(RCL)
- The RCL's will get the products schema and we will create a Strawberry shake client to be used in the blazor compnents. 
- When we register the product so that the Blazor app can see them will will have the http client be the gateway instead of the subgraph. Since the Schema is identical this works.
- The product service will be exposed via graphql onto the gateway api. We will only have a single web api.
- We will be using Hotchocolate to do this so the resolvers will resolve for an entity type and will need to call a Domain service and pass in the users path/paths for that entity type and the domain will return the ids it can see. Then the product can load them from the product read tables.
- The products will have mutations to create or update entities. These mutations will need to call the appropriate doamin service if it is a suite level entity. The Domain service creates the Id and calls the Platform Service that handles the graph and creates the appriopriate Key, Child or Link. It returns the object to the product and the product saves it in a read table. A subscription (Marten/Wolverine) will then be created for this entity to the domain stream of this entity so if another product updates the entity it will stay up to date across products. 

### Event Store
- Event store will be maintianed by the Suite services. 
- MartenDb will be used with Postgres.
- This will be our main data store.

## Schema
Platform Scoped Entities (Separate Platform Db):

### Platform User
This represents a user on the platform. It holds their identity details and is used for authentication and authorization.

### Subscription
Contains which organization owns which workspace and what products are they subscribed for.

### Organization
This represents an organization on the platform. It holds the details of the organization and is linked to the subscription. 



Workspace Scoped Entities (Probably have a separate Db per Workspace):

### Workspace User
Just represents a User on the platform.

### Membership
This links a User to a Realm Role in a Realm. This is how we determine what a user can see in a realm.

### ClientRealm
This is the realm that represents a client of the Subscription Owner. The Subscription Owner can have many clients and thus many realms. They are scoped be workspace.

### RealmRole
This is the Role that a user can have in a realm. It holds the paths that a user with this role can traverse and the permissions on those paths.


### Tag Definition
This would be a definition of a tag that can be used to tag any entity in the graph. Eg. Roof Colour

### Tag Option 
This would be an option for a tag definition. Eg. Red, Blue, Green

### Tag
This would link the Tag Option to an entity in the graph. Eg. Roof Colour - Red


### LegalEntity
This could be an Organization or a Person in the real world. It is the Legal represntation of that user or organization.

### Entities for the Suite Domain
Since the platform should be able to handle any suite business domain we have these types here that enable the business domain essentially to enter the graph db and then we can traverse via domain types in the graph db. Since all business entities can fall into one of these categories.

#### Key (Base Type)
Since the platform should be able to handle any suite business domain, a Key is the platform type for all Aggregates of the Suite Domain.

#### Child (Base Type)
Since the platform should be able to handle any suite business domain, a Link is the platform type for all entities of the Suite Domain that can't exist without their parent Aggregate.

#### Link (Base Type)
Since the platform should be able to handle any suite business domain, a Link is the platform type for all Aggregates that link two other aggregates together. We treat relationships as first class citizens so most many to many relationship are instanced as aggregates.


To note that there is a difference between the Platform where the subscription and user management happens and the Workspace where the products and the business logic happens. The workspace is where the graph is and where the products are. The platform is where the subscription details and user details are. The platform is also where the subscriber can go to set up their workspace and manage their subscription. Once they have set up their workspace they will be able to go to their custom url to access the products and manage their workspace.

